# 716. Max Stack

## Question

Design a max stack that supports push, pop, top, peekMax and popMax.

1. push(x) -- Push element x onto stack.
2. pop() -- Remove the element on top of the stack and return it.
3. top() -- Get the element on the top.
4. peekMax() -- Retrieve the maximum element in the stack.
5. popMax() -- Retrieve the maximum element in the stack, and remove it. If you find more than one maximum elements, only remove the top-most one.

**Example 1:**

```
MaxStack stack = new MaxStack();
stack.push(5); 
stack.push(1);
stack.push(5);
stack.top(); -> 5
stack.popMax(); -> 5
stack.top(); -> 1
stack.peekMax(); -> 5
stack.pop(); -> 1
stack.top(); -> 5
```

**Note:**

1. -1e7 <= x <= 1e7
2. Number of operations won't exceed 10000.
3. The last four operations won't be called when stack is empty.

## Ideas

Based on 155.minStack, use two stacks.

Based on 146.LRU, use TreeMap and Double Linked List.

## Highlights

## Code

```java
// Source : https://leetcode.com/problems/max-stack/
// Author: Eve
// Date: 2020-07-22

// Method 1: Two Stacks
class MaxStack {

    Stack<Integer> stack;
    Stack<Integer> max;
    public MaxStack() {
        stack = new Stack();
        max = new Stack();
    }
    
    public void push(int x) {
        stack.push(x);
        if (max.isEmpty() || x >= max.peek()) {
            max.push(x);
        }
    }
    
    public int pop() {
        int tmp = stack.pop();
        if (max.peek().equals(tmp)) {
            max.pop();
        }
        return tmp;
    }
    
    public int top() {
        return stack.peek();
    }
    
    public int peekMax() {
        return max.peek();
    }
    
    public int popMax() {
        int res = max.peek();
        // use a stack to temprarily store the elements above the Max element.
        Stack<Integer> buffer = new Stack();
        while (!stack.peek().equals(res)) {
            buffer.push(pop());
        }
        // call it's own pop
        pop();
        // push the elements back to the stack
        while (!buffer.isEmpty()) {
            // call it's own push
            push(buffer.pop());
        }
        return res;
    }
}
// Time Complexity: O(n) for popMax, O(1) for others.
// Space Complexity: O(n)

// Method 2: TreeMap + Double Linked List
class MaxStack {

    // store stack as a double linked list
    class DLinkedNode {
        int value;
        DLinkedNode prev;
        DLinkedNode next;
        
        public DLinkedNode(int value) {
            this.value = value;
        }
    }
    
    // add the last element prior to the tail
    private void addNode(DLinkedNode node) {
        node.next = tail;
        node.prev = tail.prev;
        tail.prev.next = node;
        tail.prev = node;
    }
    
    // remove the last element prior to the tail
    private void removeNode(DLinkedNode node) {
        node.prev.next = node.next;
        node.next.prev = node.prev;
    }
    
    // use the value as the key, use a list to record nodes with the same value.
    // the treeMap will be order by the value, so the Max will always be at the end.
    private TreeMap<Integer, List<DLinkedNode>> map;
    // use two dummies to avoid null.
    private DLinkedNode head;
    private DLinkedNode tail;
    
    public MaxStack() {
        map = new TreeMap<>();
        head = new DLinkedNode(0);
        tail = new DLinkedNode(0);
        head.next = tail;
        tail.prev = head;
    }
    
    public void push(int x) {
        DLinkedNode node = new DLinkedNode(x);
        // add the node to the linkedList (stack).
        addNode(node);
        // if the value does not exist, create a new pair.
        if (!map.containsKey(x)) {
            map.put(x, new ArrayList<DLinkedNode>());
        }
        // add the node to the list (map value).
        map.get(x).add(node);
    }
    
    public int pop() {
        // the last element will be prior to the tail.
        int val = tail.prev.value;
        // remove the node from the linkedList.
        removeNode(tail.prev);
        List<DLinkedNode> l = map.get(val);
        // remove the latest node with the value from the map value.
        l.remove(l.size() - 1);
        // if it's empty, then there's no such value, remove the entry.
        if (l.isEmpty()) {
            map.remove(val);
        }
        return val;
    }
    
    public int top() {
        return tail.prev.value;
    }
    
    public int peekMax() {
        // treeMap is ordered.
        return map.lastKey(); 
    }
    
    public int popMax() {
        int maxVal = map.lastKey();
        // find out the Max node and remove it.
        List<DLinkedNode> l = map.get(maxVal);
        // remove it from the map value.
        DLinkedNode node = l.remove(l.size() - 1);
        // remove the corresponding node from the linkedList.
        removeNode(node);
        if (l.isEmpty()) {
            map.remove(maxVal);
        }
        return maxVal;
    }
}
// Time Complexity: O(log(n)) for all except O(1) for peek.
// Space Complexity: O(n)
```

